# CS-465-FullStack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

## Architecture
The Travlr project was developed using the MEAN stack, which is a bundle of different programming technologies comprised of MongoDB, Express.js, Angular, and Node.js. I used HTML, JavaScript, and CSS on the client-side to create the user interface and experience (UI/UX). On the server-side, Express HTML is used to simplify the process of rendering HTML views to the client. A Single-Page Application (SPA) is a type of web application that loads a single HTML page and dynamically updates parts of the page as users interact with the application. This creates fast load times and a seamless user experience. MongoDB is a document-based NoSQL database that stores data in JSON-like format. MongoDB makes it easy for developers to store structured, and unstructured data. The backend of Travlr uses a NoSQL MongoDB database because of its flexibility, ability to scale, performance, and its ease of use when working with the same data between the front- and back-end.

## Functionality
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data interchange format. JSON is a text format that is completely language-independent but uses conventions that are familiar to programmers of the C-family of languages, including C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, Perl, Python, and many others. It is used to connect the frontend and backend but it is not the same as JavaScript. JSON is a text format that is derived from a subset of the JavaScript Programming Language. JSON is a way to store and transmit data, while JavaScript is a programming language that can be used to create and control dynamic website content.

As we progressed through the full-stack development process, several modifications were made to enhance how the code functions. One significant improvement was when we introduced a Single Page Application (SPA) into the workflow. Originally, the server handled rendering views, but that can eventually put a lot of strain on it, so we decided to integrate Angular as our front-end client. This change turned our application into a dynamic SPA, allowing the client-side to interact with the back-end through API requests. This means less need for whole page reloads, making the user experience much smoother and more efficient.

## Testing
In a full-stack application, the methods GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE allow users to interact with specific endpoints, which represent different functionalities within the application; some requests modify the database, and some modify the UI. Testing these endpoints involves ensuring requests return the correct responses while also preventing common vulnerabilities via the authentication and authorization implementation. In other words, we run tests to ensure the reliability, functionality, and security of the entire application, providing users with a seamless and secure experience.
